---
title: "What is a Static Site and When Does My Company Need One?"
categories:
  - Static Site
comments: true
tags:
  - Static Site Generators
  - Static Site
last_modified_at: 2020-09-03T08:25:52-05:00
excerpt: "Basically, a static site is when the content doesn'y change based on the user..."
author: "Chris Connelly"
image:
  path: /assets/images/staticsites.png
---

## What is a static page

>  is a web page that is delivered to the user's web browser exactly as stored, in contrast to dynamic web pages which are generated by a web application Consequently, a static web page displays the same information for all users, from all contexts, subject to modern capabilities of a web server to negotiate content-type or language of the document where such versions are available and the server is configured to do so.

Basically, a static website is a website that doesn't change based on the user. The site is served to the user exactly as it was stored. This doesn't mean that the page can't have dynamic thing inside of it. For example, you could have a page that IS static oull data from the weather network and display it but, the API will still be pulled no matter who lands on that page. 


A Dynamic page would be like facebook. This page, if you looked at it on the server wouldn't display anything until it knows who the user is. 

## When should I use a static page?

IMO, just about everyone should be using a static page unless you are building a web app. Most companies will only require a static page. If your page needs to tell people who you are and provide contact information a static page will do. 

A static page no longer requires the large ecosystem that webpages required or that dynamic pages require now. A static page can be hosted through Github and Netlify saving your comapny a lot of money and your dev a lot of head ache. 
